**Question 51**: You are creating a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster with a cluster autoscaler feature enabled. You need to make sure that each node of the cluster will run a monitoring pod that sends container metrics to a third-party monitoring solution. What should you do?

A: Deploy the monitoring pod in a StatefulSet object.

B: Deploy the monitoring pod in a DaemonSet object.

C: Reference the monitoring pod in a Deployment object.

D: Reference the monitoring pod in a cluster initializer at the GKE cluster creation time.

Answer: B

```text
B is right: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/
Some typical uses of a DaemonSet are:

running a cluster storage daemon on every node
running a logs collection daemon on every node
running a node monitoring daemon on every node
```

<hr />

**Question 52**:
You want to send and consume Cloud Pub/Sub messages from your App Engine application. The Cloud Pub/Sub API is currently disabled. You will use a service account to authenticate your application to the API. You want to make sure your application can use Cloud Pub/Sub. What should you do?

A: Enable the Cloud Pub/Sub API in the API Library on the GCP Console.

B: Rely on the automatic enablement of the Cloud Pub/Sub API when the Service Account accesses it.

C: Use Deployment Manager to deploy your application. Rely on the automatic enablement of all APIs used by the application being deployed.

D: Grant the App Engine Default service account the role of Cloud Pub/Sub Admin. Have your application enable the API on the first connection to Cloud Pub/ Sub.

Answer: A

```js
https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/quickstart-console
```

<hr />

**Question 53**:
You need to monitor resources that are distributed over different projects in Google Cloud Platform. You want to consolidate reporting under the same Stackdriver Monitoring dashboard. What should you do?

A: Use Shared VPC to connect all projects, and link Stackdriver to one of the projects.

B: For each project, create a Stackdriver account. In each project, create a service account for that project and grant it the role of Stackdriver Account Editor in all other projects.

C: Configure a single Stackdriver account, and link all projects to the same account.

D: Configure a single Stackdriver account for one of the projects. In Stackdriver, create a Group and add the other project names as criteria for that Group.

Answer: C

```text
- First of all D is incorrect, Groups are used to define alerts on set of resources(such as VM instances, databases, and load balancers). FYI tried adding Two projects into a group it did not allowed me as the "AND"/"OR" criteria for the group failed with this combination of resources.
- C is correct because,When you intially click on Monitoring(Stackdriver Monitoring) it creates a workspac(a stackdriver account) linked to the ACTIVE(CURRENT) Project from which it was clicked.
- Now if you change the project and again click onto Monitoring it would create an another workspace(a stackdriver account) linked to the changed ACTIVE(CURRENT) Project, we don't want this as this would not consolidate our result into a single dashboard(workspace/stackdriver account).
- If you have accidently created two diff workspaces merge them under Monitoring > Settings > Merge Workspaces > MERGE.
```

<hr />

**Question 54**
You are deploying an application to a Compute Engine VM in a managed instance group. The application must be running at all times, but only a single instance of the VM should run per GCP project. How should you configure the instance group?

A: Set autoscaling to On, set the minimum number of instances to 1, and then set the maximum number of instances to 1.

B: Set autoscaling to Off, set the minimum number of instances to 1, and then set the maximum number of instances to 1.

C: Set autoscaling to On, set the minimum number of instances to 1, and then set the maximum number of instances to 2.

D: Set autoscaling to Off, set the minimum number of instances to 1, and then set the maximum number of instances to 2.

Answer: A
https://www.examtopics.com/discussions/google/view/20724-exam-associate-cloud-engineer-topic-1-question-33-discussion/

<hr />

**Question 55**
You want to verify the IAM users and roles assigned within a GCP project named my-project. What should you do?

A: Run gcloud iam roles list. Review the output section.

B: Run gcloud iam service-accounts list. Review the output section.

C: Navigate to the project and then to the IAM section in the GCP Console. Review the members and roles.

D: Navigate to the project and then to the Roles section in the GCP Console. Review the roles and status.

Answer: C

```text
- https://www.examtopics.com/discussions/google/view/16703-exam-associate-cloud-engineer-topic-1-question-34-discussion/
- Correct answer is C as IAM section provides the list of both Members and Roles.Option A is wrong as it would provide information about the roles only.Option B is wrong as it would provide only the service accounts.Option D is wrong as it would provide information about the roles only.
```

**Question 56**:
You need to create a new billing account and then link it with an existing Google Cloud Platform project. What should you do?

A: Verify that you are Project Billing Manager for the GCP project. Update the existing project to link it to the existing billing account.

B: Verify that you are Project Billing Manager for the GCP project. Create a new billing account and link the new billing account to the existing project.

C: Verify that you are Billing Administrator for the billing account. Create a new project and link the new project to the existing billing account.

D: Verify that you are Billing Administrator for the billing account. Update the existing project to link it to the existing billing account.

Answer: C

**Question 57**
You have one project called proj-sa where you manage all your service accounts. You want to be able to use a service account from this project to take snapshots of VMs running in another project called proj-vm. What should you do?

A: Download the private key from the service account, and add it to each VMs custom metadata.

B: Download the private key from the service account, and add the private key to each VM's SSH keys.

C: Grant the service account the IAM Role of Compute Storage Admin in the project called proj-vm.

D: When creating the VMs, set the service account's API scope for Compute Engine to read/write.

Answer: C

**Question 58**:
You created a Google Cloud Platform project with an App Engine application inside the project. You initially configured the application to be served from the us- central region. Now you want the application to be served from the asia-northeast1 region. What should you do?

A: Change the default region property setting in the existing GCP project to asia-northeast1.

B: Change the region property setting in the existing App Engine application from us-central to asia-northeast1.

C: Create a second App Engine application in the existing GCP project and specify asia-northeast1 as the region to serve your application.

D: Create a new GCP project and create an App Engine application inside this new project. Specify asia-northeast1 as the region to serve your application.

Answer: D

**Question 59**
You need to grant access for three users so that they can view and edit table data on a Cloud Spanner instance. What should you do?

A: Run gcloud iam roles describe roles/spanner.databaseUser. Add the users to the role.

B: Run gcloud iam roles describe roles/spanner.databaseUser. Add the users to a new group. Add the group to the role.

C: Run gcloud iam roles describe roles/spanner.viewer - -project my-project. Add the users to the role.

D: Run gcloud iam roles describe roles/spanner.viewer - -project my-project. Add the users to a new group. Add the group to the role.

Answer: B

<hr />

**Question 60**:
You create a new Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster and want to make sure that it always runs a supported and stable version of Kubernetes. What should you do?

A: Enable the Node Auto-Repair feature for your GKE cluster.

B: Enable the Node Auto-Upgrades feature for your GKE cluster.

C: Select the latest available cluster version for your GKE cluster.

D: Select "Container-Optimized OS (cos)" as a node image for your GKE cluster.

Answer: B

- https://www.examtopics.com/discussions/google/view/19613-exam-associate-cloud-engineer-topic-1-question-39-discussion/
